README.md, before:

<!---
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

Apache Incubator
---------------
Helix is now part of Apache Incubator. 

Project page: http://incubator.apache.org/projects/helix.html

Documentation: http://helix.incubator.apache.org/

Mailing list: http://helix.incubator.apache.org/mail-lists.html

### Build

mvn clean install package -DskipTests


WHAT IS HELIX
--------------
Helix is a generic cluster management framework used for automatic management of partitioned, replicated and distributed resources hosted on a cluster of nodes. Helix provides the following features: 

1. Automatic assignment of resource/partition to nodes
2. Node failure detection and recovery
3. Dynamic addition of Resources 
4. Dynamic addition of nodes to the cluster
5. Pluggable distributed state machine to manage the state of a resource via state transitions
6. Automatic load balancing and throttling of transitions 

-----
  

Build Informations
------------------

To deploy web site to Apache infrastructure: sh ./deploySite.sh -Dusername=uid -Dpassword=pwd (-DskipTests if you don't want to run units tests)
uid is your asf id, pwd is the password

Commit message:

[HELIX-358] Update website to reflect graduation

README.md, after:

<!---
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

Apache Helix
---------------
Helix is part of the Apache Software Foundation.

Documentation: http://helix.apache.org/

Mailing list: http://helix.apache.org/mail-lists.html

### Build

mvn clean install package -DskipTests


### What is Helix?

Helix is a generic cluster management framework used for automatic management of partitioned, replicated and distributed resources hosted on a cluster of nodes. Helix provides the following features: 

1. Automatic assignment of resource/partition to nodes
2. Node failure detection and recovery
3. Dynamic addition of Resources 
4. Dynamic addition of nodes to the cluster
5. Pluggable distributed state machine to manage the state of a resource via state transitions
6. Automatic load balancing and throttling of transitions 

-----
  

### Building the Website

To deploy the web site to Apache infrastructure: sh website/deploySite.sh -Dusername=uid -Dpassword=pwd (-DskipTests if you don't want to run units tests)
uid is your asf id, pwd is the password
